Post to boost the GAAD Pledge initiative by Facebook to improve RN a11y (#2530)
facebook/react-native-website: website/blog/2021-03-05-GAAD-React-Native-Accessibility.md

---
title: The GAAD Pledge - Improving React Native Accessibility
author: Alexandra Marlette
authorTitle: GAAD Pledge Open Source Accessibility Community Manager for React Native
authorURL: 'https://twitter.com/alexmarlette'
authorImageURL: 'https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/10052470?s=460&u=7f2304cb929d1de703856717af86324c66728f3a&v=4'
authorTwitter: alexmarlette
tags: [announcement]
---

## Hello React Native Community,

> In May 2020 Facebook was the first company to take the [GAAD pledge](https://diamond.la/GAADPledge/), by doing so they committed to making accessibility a core part of the React Native open source project. Since May, Facebook has spent that time thoughtfully reviewing and documenting accessibility gaps within React Native. So far the gap analysis has surfaced 90 issues, all of which have been translated to Github issues on [React Native's Github](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/projects/15).

Reviewer: Since this is being published on the React Native blog, you can probably change 

```
translated to Github issues on [React Native's Github](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/projects/15).
```

to 
```
translated to [Github issues](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/projects/15).
```

Overall, we found that React Native APIs provide strong support for accessibility. However, we also found many core components do not yet fully utilize platform accessibility APIs and support is missing for some platform specific features.

> With knowledge of where the gaps exist, work can begin on closing them, the enthusiasm and diversity of contributors have always played a critical role in the development of React Native and whether a seasoned or new contributor, we're asking you to join in making React Native more accessible.

Reviewer: What about this? The original form felt a bit formal and difficult to read for me. 

```suggestion
We have found that many of these gaps in accessibility are great opportunities for new contributors to React Native. If you have been interested in contributing to React Native, we encourage you to join us in making React Native more accessible. 
```

Author: My main concern is that we were also trying to convey that the community has played a large part in previous developments and that gets missed in the suggestion. Maybe:

The enthusiasm and diversity of contributors have always played a critical role in the development of React Native and these gaps in accessibility are great opportunities for current and new contributors. If you have been interested in contributing to React Native, we encourage you to join us in making React Native more accessible.

> To recognize contributors for their effort, when an accessibility issue is closed and attached to a pull request, contributors will get a shout out on Twitter from our community manager. Contributors whose pull requests are accepted into the codebase will be highlighted in our monthly issues update on Medium.

Reviewer: Won't be published on Medium

Author: Thank you for catching this.

Please join us in making React Native more accessible for everyone.

### How you can help:

> - New contributors should read the [contribution guide](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) and browse the list of 46 [good first issues](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22Good+first+issue%22+label%3AAccessibility) in the React Native Github

Reviewer: Needs a period.

> - Seasoned contributors should visit [the project page for Improved React Native Accessibility](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/projects/15) to see the Github issues that need their knowledge of React Native

Reviewer: Needs a period. 

Also, I think `Seasoned` may not be the right inclusive word to use here. Instead of referring to the traits of the person who should contribute, maybe focus on the description of the issues. For example, "issues requiring a bit more effort".

Author: What about:

Contributors interested in issues requiring a bit more effort should visit [the project page for Improved React Native Accessibility](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/projects/15) to see the Github issues that need their knowledge of React Native.

Reviewer: Sounds great!

Author: Made the changes and committed them to the branch. Thank you for the feedback!

- Technical writers interested in updating React Native's documentation to reflect the accessibility gaps being closed should visit the [React Native Docs](https://github.com/facebook/react-native-website#-overview)

- Share this initiative with anyone who may be able to help!

> [Twitter](https://twitter.com/alexmarlette) | [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/React-Native-Open-Source-Accessibility-Community-Manager-102732258549941)

Reviewer 2: Your Twitter is already linked in the post header so I think there is no need to duplicate it on the bottom, the post is not that long. 🙂  

Also I'm not sure about the purpose of the FB page link, maybe you can put it inside of the message section or "how to help" bullets with some description?

Author: I appreciate the feedback, I do want to leave in the direct link to Twitter but putting those links into the "how to help" section is a great addition. The Facebook link is mainly to meet people wherever they spend time, there are some RN communities on FB so we have that page to make it easy for people who don't spend time on twitter to stay updated.
